README.md, before:

# GIT SEARCH COMMAND

[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/git-search-command)](https://pypi.org/project/git-search-command/)
[![Last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/nguyen-ngoc-thach/git-search-command?color=yellow)](https://github.com/nguyen-ngoc-thach/git-search-command/commits/)
[![Code style](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-black)](https://github.com/psf/black)
[![pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/nguyen-ngoc-thach/git-search-command/code-clean/master?label=pre-commit)](https://github.com/nguyen-ngoc-thach/git-search-command/actions/workflows/code_clean.yml)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache-orange)](https://github.com/nguyen-ngoc-thach/git-search-command/blob/main/LICENSE)

A simple tool to search the expression in the project scope for GitLab and GitHub repositories.

## Prerequisites

1. Install [Python3+](https://www.python.org/downloads/).
2. Create a [personal GitLab access token](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/settings/project_access_tokens.html) and store it in a secure place.

## Installation

```
python -m pip install --upgrade pip
python -m pip install git-search-command
```

## Environment

After finishing the installation you need to create new environment for searching

```
gsc gl env --new <environment_name>
```

Then input your host name and personal token as following

![](./resources/gsc_setup_env.gif)

See more

```
gsc gl env --help

Usage: gsc gl env [OPTIONS]

  Setup the environment for searching, support multiple environments.

Options:
  -n, --new <environment>      Create new or override the env information if
                               it was existed.
  -d, --default <environment>  Set the environment as default.
  -r, --remove <environment>   Remove the environment.
  -i, --info <environment>     Display the environment info.
  -l, --list                   List all environment.
  -h, --help                   Show this message and exit.
```

## Usage

### Search in project

![](./resources/gsc_search_project.gif)

```
gsc gl search <keywork> --project <project_id>
```

You can find project ID as below image

![](./resources/gsc_find_project_id.png)

### Search in group

![](./resources/gsc_search_group.gif)

```
gsc gl search <keywork> --group <group_id_or_group_path>
```

You can search in group using id or path name. You refer the below image to get them.

![](./resources/gsc_find_group_id.png)

See more

```
$ gsc gl search --help

Usage: gsc gl search [OPTIONS] <keyword>

  Search the content in GitLab repositories.

Options:
  -g, --group <string>        Search in the specified project group, input
                              group id or group path.
  -p, --project <int>         Search in the specified project, input project
                              id.
  -e, --environment <string>  Select the environment for searching, if not
                              declare, default environment has been used.
  -v                          Show result preview, available only when
                              searching project, not in group.
  -o, --output <file_path>    Export the search result to file, support txt
                              and markdown file.
  -h, --help                  Show this message and exit.
```

## Development

### Environments

1. [Python 3.7+](https://www.python.org)
2. [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) with [Python](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.python) extension.

### Setup

#### Terminal

Create and activate the virtual environment

```
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
```

Then install the dependencies for development environment

```
python -m pip install -e .[develop]
```

#### Vscode task

1. `Ctrl Shift B` to select `Tasks: Run Task`
2. Run `Install DEV environment` task

### Build

#### Terminal

```
python setup.py -v build install
```

#### Vscode task

Run `Build Project` task.

### Design Concept

- [OOP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-oriented_programming)
- [Clean Architecture](https://blog.cleancoder.com/uncle-bob/2012/08/13/the-clean-architecture.html)
- Repository Pattern

### Library

- [Python Request](<https://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/>)
- [ReactiveX for Python (RxPY)](https://rxpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#)
- [Click](https://click.palletsprojects.com/)
- [Python-dotenv](https://github.com/theskumar/python-dotenv)
- [JsonPickle](https://jsonpickle.github.io/)

## License

[Apache](https://github.com/nguyen-ngoc-thach/git-search-command/blob/main/LICENSE)

## Reference documents

### GitLab

- [Project Api](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/projects.html)
- [Group Api](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/groups.html)
- [Search Api](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/search.html)
- [Search Rate Limit](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/instance_limits.html#search-rate-limit)

Commit message:

Validate export file extension, just support markdown file

README.md, after:

# GIT SEARCH COMMAND

[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/git-search-command)](https://pypi.org/project/git-search-command/)
[![Last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/nguyen-ngoc-thach/git-search-command?color=yellow)](https://github.com/nguyen-ngoc-thach/git-search-command/commits/)
[![Code style](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-black)](https://github.com/psf/black)
[![pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/nguyen-ngoc-thach/git-search-command/code-clean/master?label=pre-commit)](https://github.com/nguyen-ngoc-thach/git-search-command/actions/workflows/code_clean.yml)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache-orange)](https://github.com/nguyen-ngoc-thach/git-search-command/blob/main/LICENSE)

A simple tool to search the expression in the project scope for GitLab and GitHub repositories.

## Prerequisites

1. Install [Python3+](https://www.python.org/downloads/).
2. Create a [personal GitLab access token](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/settings/project_access_tokens.html) and store it in a secure place.

## Installation

```
python -m pip install --upgrade pip
python -m pip install git-search-command
```

## Environment

After finishing the installation you need to create new environment for searching

```
gsc gl env --new <environment_name>
```

Then input your host name and personal token as following

![](./resources/gsc_setup_env.gif)

See more

```
gsc gl env --help

Usage: gsc gl env [OPTIONS]

  Setup the environment for searching, support multiple environments.

Options:
  -n, --new <environment>      Create new or override the env information if
                               it was existed.
  -d, --default <environment>  Set the environment as default.
  -r, --remove <environment>   Remove the environment.
  -i, --info <environment>     Display the environment info.
  -l, --list                   List all environment.
  -h, --help                   Show this message and exit.
```

## Usage

### Search in project

![](./resources/gsc_search_project.gif)

```
gsc gl search <keywork> --project <project_id>
```

You can find project ID as below image

![](./resources/gsc_find_project_id.png)

### Search in group

![](./resources/gsc_search_group.gif)

```
gsc gl search <keywork> --group <group_id_or_group_path>
```

You can search in group using id or path name. You refer the below image to get them.

![](./resources/gsc_find_group_id.png)

See more

```
$ gsc gl search --help

Usage: gsc gl search [OPTIONS] <keyword>

  Search the content in GitLab repositories.

Options:
  -g, --group <string>        Search in the specified project group, input
                              group id or group path.
  -p, --project <int>         Search in the specified project, input project
                              id.
  -e, --environment <string>  Select the environment for searching, if not
                              declare, default environment has been used.
  -o, --output <file_path>    Export the search result to markdown file with
                              extension .md or .markdown.
  -d, --debug                 Enable debug logging of HTTP request.
  -h, --help                  Show this message and exit.
```

## Development

### Environments

1. [Python 3.7+](https://www.python.org)
2. [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) with [Python](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.python) extension.

### Setup

#### Terminal

Create and activate the virtual environment

```
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
```

Then install the dependencies for development environment

```
python -m pip install -e .[develop]
```

#### Vscode task

1. `Ctrl Shift B` to select `Tasks: Run Task`
2. Run `Install DEV environment` task

### Build

#### Terminal

```
python setup.py -v build install
```

#### Vscode task

Run `Build Project` task.

### Design Concept

- [OOP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-oriented_programming)
- [Clean Architecture](https://blog.cleancoder.com/uncle-bob/2012/08/13/the-clean-architecture.html)
- Repository Pattern

### Library

- [Python Request](<https://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/>)
- [ReactiveX for Python (RxPY)](https://rxpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#)
- [Click](https://click.palletsprojects.com/)
- [Python-dotenv](https://github.com/theskumar/python-dotenv)
- [JsonPickle](https://jsonpickle.github.io/)

## License

[Apache](https://github.com/nguyen-ngoc-thach/git-search-command/blob/main/LICENSE)

## Reference documents

### GitLab

- [Project Api](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/projects.html)
- [Group Api](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/groups.html)
- [Search Api](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/search.html)
- [Search Rate Limit](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/instance_limits.html#search-rate-limit)
